dosed HbasG sembmeSadqoO
AIFS HHS Hensrnradasentd
. Department of Government Information

 
 

4

27.09.2021
Release No :988/2021
Time :15.00
Chief Editor / News Editor
Director (News)/ News Manager
Web Editor

Do not get misled by baseless opinions by parties with commercial interests: take
COVID-19 vaccine without delay — Specialist Doctors warn.

Do not listen to baseless opinions expressed by certain persons with commercial interests, and
take the vaccines against the COVID-19 pandemic at the first available opportunity, Professor
of Community Health at the Medical Faculty of the University of Colombo, Manju
Weerasinghe urged the youth.

The Professor points out that there is no scientific basis to the statements made by certain
persons that sexual impotence and infertility are caused in the human body due to the vaccine.
He urged the youth not to fall prey to such false opinions and act wisely, protect themselves
and the country as well.

Professor Weerasinghe was speaking at a media briefing organized by the Goverment
Information Department to respond with scientific facts to the fallacies being circulated
through various platforms which are intended to disrupt the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination
program.

The death toll on persons over 60 has reduced due to vaccination. Professor Weerasinghe calls
the propagandists who circulate false opinions with ulterior motives not to disrupt the current
vaccination program that intends to save the lives of the youth.

The Second jab of the vaccine was given to nearly 12 million citizens by yesterday (26).
Another 2.2 million are waiting for the Second dose. The best solution, not only in Sri Lanka
but also in the world to control the COVID-19 pandemic is vaccination.

According to Professor Weerasinghe, the first legislation on vaccination against communicable
diseases was brought by Parliament of Great Britain in 1853. That was to control Smallpox.
Since then, the factions who oppose vaccination have one reasoning that it is futile, might
contain unhealthy substances therefore, countries should not accept the command of Western
Medicine. Vaccines were introduced against Rabies in 1885, Diphtheria in 1920. Several
vaccines were introduced between 1949 and 1955 as well. Therefore vaccination has been
proved the most effective treatment and decisive factor as it has been able to control several
contagious diseases to the minimum level possible.

Addressing journalists, consultant physician attached to the Homagama COVID-19 Treatment
Tertiary Hospital Dr. Eranga Narangoda said vaccination helped reduce the number of COVID-
19 related deaths and infected patients as well.

Complete immunization is developed in the human body two months after the vaccination of
both doses. When tested positive for the disease during this pending period, the condition of
even a vaccinated patient could become serious or the patient could die. The Doctor refuted the
public opinion that immunity generation differs from one brand to other. He said all 08 vaccines
tecommended by WHO have an equal capacity of immunization. Pfizer has been
® +94 11) 2515759

(+94 11) ‘53

   
