ourBes Qeddone, OmEM, § @omO
Qurnrelew Sencvennwisid, OSTEO, @\evmEHs
POLICE HEAD QUARTERS, COLOMBO, SRI LANKA

   

 

wtaihSae
BL O&, Gomes oyses
B. QU .Qyov. Asromupacd i
P.O. Box No. | 517 Fax No. } see
gomoses 5-eO¢
AgranvcuF) 011-2384024 Wetr- seared Policemedia@police.Ik
Telephone 011-2395605 Website: www.police.lk E-Mail
God geome Bed gone Bene
eToOT BI Bev. PMD/SPR/24/2020 2B Qa. Gas) 11.05.2020
My No. Your No. Date 1205 Hours

News Director/ Editor
Dear Sir/Madam

The quarantine curfew is occasionally implemented for preventing the spread of the COVID 19 virus

throughout the island.

The government has decided to commence the restoring normalcy in civilian life, with effect from
11.05.2020, while the quarantine curfew is being imposed. Accordingly, it is essential to focus on the

following matters.

Ry

“+ Restoring normalcy in civilian life while the quarantine curfew is imposed in Colombo and

Gampaha Districts.

1. It is decided to open public institutions/offices by calling only the essential number of
employees. These employees can use their official identity card, a letter by their institute, or an
electronic copy of that letter as a curfew permit. In this case, the officers, who have to travel
across district boundaries for reaching their workplace or returning home, are not required to
obtain a Medical Officer of Health (MOH) certificate.

Public officers travelling by their private vehicles and by vehicles provided by the relevant
institution should come to the workplace before 08.30 hours and should leave the office
between 15.00 - 16.00 hours. However, the above times are not relevant for government

factories and public institutions that are functioning according to a duty roster.

Employees of private institutions/offices travelling by their private vehicles and by vehicles
provided by the relevant institution are expected to arrive at their workplace between 08.30 -
10.00 hours and the vehicles that are transporting employees after the duty, should leave
between 16.00 - 17.00 hours.

2. In transporting passengers through public transport services (trains and buses) respective bus

owners, drivers and conductors should take action to maintain the health guidelines.

3. Wholesale and retail shops that discharge essential services for the public and that sells foods
and goods will be permitted to open. Accordingly, pharmacies, groceries, telephone outlets,

textile shops, books and newspaper stalls, and lottery sales outlets are also permitted.
